- [Instructor] Alright, now that you're familiar
with the Docker CLI, you looked at different
commands that are available,
let's put them to use by running
your very first Docker container.
Alright, here we are in our Docker terminal here.
Once again, if I do Docker --help
it shows me the complete list of commands
or I can say, show me only the modern commands
not the legacy commands.
This is what we saw in the last section.
So the very first thing I want to do here is,
I want to run a simple container.
Okay?
What we will do is, we'll say Docker container --help.
So it shows me all the commands
that are available for container.
Now, you want to run a container
so the obvious thing that comes to your mind is,
run sub-command.
And viola!
It has a run sub-command.
So I go back here and I say
run and it shows me
the complete help for the run sub-command.
There are a lot of options.
You can read through them,
understand their meaning.
Well, what we're going to show you here is
how easy it is to fire up your very first container.
So let's gear up the console here.
And I'm going to say,
Docker container run and let's say
I want to run a simple Java container.
In my case, I want to run a jboss/wildfly container.
I'm going to say, jboss/wildfly.
The important part here is
go back to our Docker workflow
where we said, the Docker client
makes a request to the host
and if it does not have that image
to run the container,
it will download the image from the container.
Now we have not downloaded any image on this host
so far.
So when I say Docker container run jboss widlfly
that entire workflow will automatically kick in.
Now an important switch that I would like you
to look at here is by default
container run in the foreground mode.
And you cannot interact with it.
So what I want to do is, I want to run the container
in the interactive mode
and I want to assign a TTY to it.
And the reason I would like to assign
a TTY to it so that is when I press
something on my command keyboard here
it actually goes to the underlying container.
So what I'm doing is,
Docker container run jboss/wildfly
run it in interactive mode.
Now of course it says,
the image is not available.
So as you can see
it's downloading the image from the Docker hub.
By default, it's configured for the Docker hub
and that's where it's downloading the image.
It'll take a few seconds to download
the image and once the image is downloaded.
you can see the container rather starts up very rapidly.
So if I go to the top here
so this is where my image is downloaded
and if you are familiar with wild fly
you'll understand this is a very similar
problem that comes along when wild fly
is starting up.
And if we look here
it's starting wild fly full platform
10.1.0 as shown over here
and on all the usual services of wild fly
here started.
If we go to the bottom here
it says, started in about five seconds.
That's pretty cool.
And remember we run the container
in the interactive mode with -IT
so now, I can say Control C
to terminate the container without doing that in IT
any amount of Control C
would not have helped
in which case, I will have to go to a different
terminal and then kill the container.
Now I'm using the Docker container run command.
I'm using it in a MAC
but these commands should work
across different operating systems.
That's the important part to understand.
Let's take a look at a different variety
of the command here.
So instead of running in a interactive
foreground way, I want to run it
in a detached mode where you run it to the background.
So if I do this, bam.
The container starts rather rapidly.
Go back to the workflow again.
The image has already been downloaded.
I'm just running the container.
Oh, the container is running now
but where do I see what the container looks like?
So for that we'll say
Docker container LS.
Now it says,
each container is given an ID.
It talks about the image.
It talks about what is the command running.
It was started about 19 seconds ago.
Off for about 18 seconds.
And it gives it a weird name.
It's a combination of words
that come from the Docker code base.
Zealous nightingale, in our case.
So that's kind of cool.
Now, I want to stop this container.
So I can say Docker container, stop.
I can use either the container ID.
I can copy paste this number here.
Or I can use the name itself.
So let's copy the name and paste it here
and I can stop the container.
Now, if I do Docker container LS
the container is not available.
But I can cheat a little bit.
I can say Docker container LS
all containers.
Now it will show me the container that is running.
And by the way, it's also showing me
the previous container that we exited which we were running
in interactive mode and we killed it.
Now to truly remove the container,
what we'll do is Docker container RM
and I will take the name again
and I will say remove the container as well.
So stopping and removing are two separate parts, okay?
Now if I look at the container listing again
it'll show me only one container.
We don't need to worry about this container at this
point in time.
So that's cool but these names are kind of weird.
I don't like these names.
I don't want to assign it a name
which is relevant to my application.
How do I do that?
So let's clear up the console again.
So let me try to round the container here.
And now I can say, --name web.
It's a more logical name.
Now I'm running a web applications
so where so, give it a name Web,
and they are we go.
So it starts up the container rather rapidly again
and now when I do Docker container LS
I don't need to say -A because I don't care about
all the containers.
And here we go.
It gives me a very nice name here
called this Web which kind of convenient
and easy to use.
Now, in certain cases I may want to just
brutal force stop and remove the container
in the single command.
So then I will say
Docker container RM-F, and once again
I can give container ID or name.
In this case, a name Web.
By giving -F, I'm saying stop and remove the container.
And this container is gone.
Now if I do LS, there are no containers running over here.
So that's just a convenient way.
Now in certain times, you may want to
not use the default command of the container
because in jboss wild fly,
by default it starts the wild fly container.
So if I go back to the command earlier here
I may not want to start wild fly container
but I just want to override or I want to run
a shell in the container.
So then I can say, bash.
One of the important things to remember about
the container is, containers can start
only one command and only one command.
And it would very well.
Now in the case,
by default wild fly container starts the wild fly
container by giving it a command
after the entire CLI
I'm saying override that command.
Basically, do not start wild fly
and instead run a bash shell.
So now if I do this here,
by the way, mistake.
We are running it in the dash mode
so we are not seeing the bash shell here.
So let's do this way again.
So say, Docker container RM-F web.
We remove the container here.
Run the same command again.
And instead of running in the dash mode
because if you want bash we want that interactive nature
of it so we're going to run it with -IT
and there we have our shell.
We are in the container shell now.
We can see, open the jboss.
We can look at the wild fly directory here.
And we can look at stand alone.
This is where the entire wild fly configuration
is available to us.
So in this section, you saw how easy
it is to start a container,
run it in an interactive mode,
run it in a background mode,
give it a name,
stop a container,
remove a container,
override the default command of the container.
So you got familiar with at least
how do you run your very first Docker container.
Let's exit out of the container by typing the
word Exit here and let's also remove
the container by using the command Docker container RM
and giving the container name which is
Web in our case.